are you aiming for band eight in ielts
writing
well i've got the keys for you four keys
that will help you
to reach your ielts goal and because
this is youtube
i'm saving the most important one for
last
by the way if you're here looking for
five magic words
that will get you to ielts eight or
four sentences to memorize that will
guarantee you band nine
this is not the place for you you cannot
hack ielts i'm sorry to tell you what
i'm going to share with you
are the requirements according to the
criteria
and i'm going to show you what you need
to do
and how to do it but the hard work the
doing that's up to you
i'm going to show you one key for each
criterion from
grammar then vocab one for coherence and
cohesion and
one for task response so here we go four
keys to band
eight in ielts writing why you need to
do them
and how to do them key number one
find and fix your errors
so obvious right but why
do you need to do it let's look at the
criteria we're zooming in on grammatical
range and accuracy here
i've got 9876 if you're aiming at band 8
look at this second dot point the
majority of sentences
are error free the examiners take this
really seriously so you must present
more than 50 percent the majority of
your sentences
absolutely perfectly no errors at all
if not you simply can't score band eight
check out this example here's a
beautiful essay
this essay addresses the question
answers the question really thoroughly
the position is clear the vocab is
gorgeous
there is a huge range of grammatical
structures
it's an excellent essay however
there is an error in every single
sentence
except for one and the errors which you
can probably see here
are tiny there's a missing article
there's a verb which doesn't agree with
the subject
little things like that but they are all
through the essay so automatically
this writer has missed band 8 in grammar
so the majority of sentences definitely
are not error-free this writer would be
probably looking at a band 6 for grammar
which is
makes some errors in grammar and
punctuation
so finding and fixing your errors is
crucial but the big question is how do
you do it
let's break our house into two
categories how do you do it while you're
preparing for the test
and then how do you do it on test day
how do you find and fix your errors
before test day during your preparation
number one is get feedback now i'm
biased and of course i think the e2
language feedback is the absolute best
thing
in the world but however you do it give
your writing to someone an ielts expert
and get feedback from them and i don't
mean get a score
get information from them what is
wrong with your writing where are the
errors how can you improve on those
things
it might be grammar it might be linking
words whatever it is
you have to know so that you can fix
them second thing is to take
action on that feedback don't just get
your work back from your teacher or your
friend
and think okay put it aside no you've
got to take
action do something to improve do
something to get rid of those little
errors
the third thing you can do is to create
your own error
hit list this is just basically a list
of the errors that you make regularly
for most people there are two three or
four
grammatical areas where they often make
mistakes
so maybe articles or subject verb
agreement
or prepositions or verbs whatever it is
you should
know what your weak areas are and write
them down
so to look something like this this is a
pretty common
error hit list that we would see at e2
one subject verb agreement so maybe the
teacher is correcting errors with your
subjects and your verbs
something like people is or
the problem are those are subject-verb
agreement
issues so write it onto your error list
and write the corrections
from your teacher to try to cement it in
your mind
you might have articles in there maybe
spelling or
any number of things make sure that you
know what your
errors are then on test day
write and edit with those errors in mind
so if you have trouble with articles as
you're writing
think carefully about the articles when
you're editing
look at the articles are they there are
they in the right spot
and so on and the second thing you can
do on test day is edit with fresh
eyes and mind you've done
one hour of writing on test day let's
say 56 minutes of writing
then you need to use those final few
minutes
to edit carefully and it's really
difficult when you're tired
and you're probably sick of looking at
the same piece of paper or the same
screen
but this is your chance to lift your
score from band six
those little areas up to band eight so
56 minutes in sit up take a deep breath
maybe tap yourself
on the head give yourself a fan and then
look at your writing
as if you have never seen it before
fresh eyes
fresh mind look for those errors find
them
and fix them key number two
use topic specific vocab
now why is this important let's look at
the criteria
lexical resource and zoom in
now band nine there are a few things you
need to do but one of them
is skillfully use uncommon lexical items
many people misinterpret this to mean
crazy bizarre words that even the most
advanced english speaker
wouldn't use i want you to shift your
perspective of
less common or uncommon common vocab
from strange to topic specific
so if you're given an essay topic about
um crime then the examiner wants to see
crime related vocabulary if your topic
is
about advertising the examiner wants to
see
words and phrases related to advertising
so things like
marketing and billboard and up
and spam those kind of things so
how do you do it before test day
input input input this means get english
in as much as you can read widely
listen to podcasts watch movies watch tv
shows watch documentaries
ted talks try to absorb english in any
way that you can
we've got these things that e2 called
topic toolkits which are
designed just to do that give you
exposure
to language based on a theme you can
find a link
in the description below to our video
all about it
so english in number two
create a vocab system so you're getting
all these new words from reading and
listening you need a way to
learn them to retain them recall them so
one
really simple way to do it is to use
flash cards
simply write the word on a piece of
paper the meaning
or the translation on the back and every
day just flip through
and keep those words fresh in your mind
you might just want to use
a vocabulary notebook or an app in your
phone as well
number three practice demonstrating your
vocab
it's one thing to know a word or to
recognize a word
and it's another thing to produce that
word and when it comes to ielts writing
of course that's what you have to do get
that word out onto the paper
so you need to practice that before the
test if you've learned
or if you have a big set of flash cards
with vocabulary that you know you've
seen it a lot you've heard it
but if you've never written it it will
not happen
accidentally on test day you need to
practice using it
beforehand so work on demonstrating your
vocabulary range
before the test on test day itself
that's your time to show what you know
the examiner can't give you points for
what's in your brain
it has to come out into your writing
second bit of advice here is to avoid
generic sentences so look at this
sentence for instance
although this is a serious problem there
are a number of possible solutions
totally fine sentence but it's not very
interesting it's not demonstrating
range it's certainly not demonstrating
uh
mastery of uncommon lexical items
this is a better sentence although the
rising crime rate is a serious problem
there are effective ways to tackle it
using a combination of harsher penalties
and better rehabilitation programs
so immediately that's a stronger
sentence it is topic specific and i'm
demonstrating
range to the examiner essential for band
eight
key number three master your
linking why do you need to do this
now we're looking at coherence and
cohesion here
we'll zoom in i want to look actually
up at band 9 for this one which says
uses cohesion in such a way that it
attracts
no attention you know when you read a
piece of writing and you
don't even notice the linking words
that is band 9 coherence and cohesion
where the linking is
smooth every sentence is connected but
you don't
even notice the linking words that's why
you need to be
aiming however a lot of people
sit down here at band 6 which says uses
cohesive devices or linkers
effectively but cohesion within and or
between sentences
may be faulty or mechanical two
serious words in ielts faulty linking
mechanical linking so how do you do it
in your test preparation before test day
number one thing is to learn how the
different types of linking words
are used all linking words are not
created equal so a word like
words like but however although
they have a similar function but we use
all three
in completely different ways you need to
know
how to use each of them properly that
includes punctuation
so there's a couple of links below in
the description section
make sure you watch them and learn them
second point is how to avoid band six
mainly you've got to learn what is
faulty linking
it's basically an error with your
linking word and what is
mechanical linking and avoid doing that
on test day only use linkers
that you are 100 confident with
if you're not really sure about where to
put a comma
with the word however or although don't
use it
if you have just one or two errors with
your linking words
you're gonna drop to band six so make
sure you do that work before the test
and on test day don't take risks with
your linkers
two check that your sentences are
holding hands as you read through your
work
try to see that each sentence has a grip
on the sentence before
and after this can be just a little word
like
it or they or this or a bigger linking
word like
additionally subsequently and three
aim for linking that attracts no
attention
this brings us to key number four
as i said this is the most important
thing that you need to know
about scoring ben seven and definitely
scoring
band eight this is an area where
a lot of people lose a lot of points
however
it's a super simple thing to do so key
number four
is to answer the question
it's really simple right but you would
be surprised
how many people do not do this on test
day
so why is it so important
well according to the criteria in task
response
at band 8 you need to sufficiently
address
all parts of the task
what a lot of people will do is address
the task only
partially so there might be one element
of the question that you just
miss maybe you didn't read it carefully
enough or you're just
rushing through it missing one element
your score is going to plummet down to
band five
even if it's beautifully written you of
course need to avoid that on test day
so how do you do it before test day as
you're preparing
read sample questions read lots of
sample questions you can find them
in cambridge material on the e2 site of
course
all over the internet read sample
questions you can find sample questions
from recent tests and analyze them
carefully
look at samples as well look for really
high level samples
preferably written by examiners or x
examiners band 8 and 9 samples
and analyze them look at how the writer
has
dealt with every part of the question
third thing is learn how to write
paragraphs
not essay templates
if you know how to write an introduction
a conclusion and body paragraphs we
teach two different structures here at
e2 then you can answer
any question you don't need to memorize
a template
for each different question type it
doesn't work like that
and in fact you should let go of the
idea of question type
is it opinion question is it advantages
disadvantages
it doesn't matter on test day you have a
question
or several questions and you have to
answer
them so when you're there
in your test the number one thing you
can do is read the question
a lot read it re-read it re-read it as
you're writing
keep looking back at the question even
the most
advanced writers need to do that you
have to stay
on topic and you have to deal with every
part of it
make sure that you deal with each part
equally and
thoroughly answer all parts of that
question
let me show you a recent task 2 question
just to
show you what i mean this task says
children nowadays spend more time on
screens and less time doing active or
creative things
why do you think this is the case what
measures could be taken to encourage
children to spend more time doing active
and creative things now some of you
might be thinking
it's a double question or it's a course
solutions
question it doesn't matter what we need
to do is look
really carefully here so yes there are
two questions
but there are many elements in those
questions
so i've got the word why here why why do
you think this is the case
but notice in the sentence before
there's a lot of information
so i have to answer in my essay why do
children spend more time on screens
and also why do they spend less time
doing active things
doing creative things so already
i need to mention these three things
i also have to talk about the measures
that could be taken to encourage
children to spend more time doing active
things
and more time doing creative things so
there's a lot
happening in this essay question if you
rush ahead and start writing
and miss part of it you'll come down to
band five
so answer the question by the way if you
want to read a full sample essay
on this question you can download it
from the link below
quick recap our four keys to band eight
number one
find and fix your errors particularly
those little grammar errors two
use topic specific vocabulary
number three master your linking
and four answer the question or
questions
and that's it now it's over to you if
you want more help come and study with
me on e2language.com in our live classes
our 101 tutorials or submit your work
for feedback
and be sure to subscribe to our channel
here on
e2 ielts to keep up with us see you soon
[Music]